Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming and by now you've
probably typed up the word ggplot about
a thousand times. Now, I'm sure it's not
as many as that but still we use ggplot
so much that the section that I'm quite
confident that you are now able to use
it on a very intuitive level and also we
learned so much about movies.
Personally I learned so much that I feel
like a movie ratings expert right now and
today we're going to quickly recap on
what we learned in this section of the
course, so in this section we learned,
number-one grammar of graphics and
ggplot 2. So we have that interesting
presentation which started off with
Charles Minar's visualization of the
French going into Russia and coming back
and how he combines using layers. All
sorts of different information on this
one small two-dimensional chart and that
kind of started off this movement of
plotting or inspired this movement of
plotting visualizations using layers and we
talked about the seven different layers
that we're going to use in R plots  and
can you recall those layers? Those layers
were data aesthetics, geometries
statistics, facets, coordinates and themes
and so then we proceeded on to discuss
those layers in more detail
throughout this section. So the next
thing that we learned in the section was
factors in R and factors are basically
categorical variable so we already
touched on factors previously in the
course but here we actually covered them
off. So we totally understand what
factors are now and they're very simple
is basically a way that our stores
categorical variables and we also
learned how to convert non-factor
variables or columns that should be
factors into factor. So we had an example
of the year column which was recognized
as a numeric column but we wanted it to be a
factor so we learned how to very quickly
convert that to be what we want it to be.
Then we talked about aesthetics and
ggplot so we started
using our data to create
visualizations and we learned about
different aesthetics so how to set the x
and what data or what information is
going to go into the x-axis, what's going to
go in to the y axis, what's going into the
color, what's going into the size. So all of
those things are aesthetics as we
discussed in this course and then we
talk about plotting with a layer so in
this tutorial we discussed that you can
control which layer goes on top in your
image based on how you specified in the
code. So the layers that come to the left
will come earlier in your code. They will
go lower on your image. So the latest
layers, the layers that are to the most
right or to the end of your code to that
chain that you're creating chain of
layers is creating a code using the plus
side. The layers on the very right will
go to the top, layers on the left will
go towards the bottom of your
visualization, so it's a very handy tool
remember that visualization that we had with
lines and the same time scatterplot so
did we want the lines on top or did you
want to scatter plot on top very easy to
control using your coat. Then we talked
about overriding aesthetics, very
powerful feature as well, so if you
already have some aesthetic sets for
instance you might have an aesthetic for
size but then in and in a certain layer
of your plots you want to change that
you can easily override that aesthetic
ggplot2 allows you to do that so it's
always good to keep in your mind that
you have controlled these things as well.
Then we talk about mapping vs setting a
very powerful tutorial or very powerful
concept I should say on the difference
between the two so do you want to map
an aesthetic so for instance we have
colors, do you want to map color to a
variable? Like what what did we use like
Sean here for instance right? Do you want
to map the color that's called mapping
when you're attaching a certain variables or
certain column in your data set to
an aesthetic.
The other option is you can set the
aesthetic, you can actually say I just
want the color to always be blue and that
way you're not mapping it you're just
setting it and the ways to do this in
ggplot are bit different.
So for mapping because it's a like the
way to remember it because it's a bit of a
more complex operation for mapping you
need to use that aes function so to map
an aesthetic you need the aes function. To
set an aesthetic, you don't need the aes
function and people who are starting off
with R sometimes forget about it and
they use the aes function for setting
and that can cause serious issues in
your visualization so just remember the
difference between the two and always
ask yourself am I mapping this aesthetic
or am I setting it and based on your
answer, you will know how to proceed with
your code. Then we talk about histograms
and a density charts had some very
lovely examples some good visualization
of histograms and Density Charts. So
remember that histograms have a
parameter called feel which is the
inside color and they also have just
color which is the colour of the border
of histogram and also to create a
histogram you only need one variable
because the beans are created
automatically for you by ggplot it's
actually that smart, so in that way
histograms is kind of combining both
geometry and statistics because in the
background some statistics are being
around for you and that's how they been
combined and also we talked about
density charts you might not end up
using them quite a lot but it's also good
to know that you do have the opportunity
to use density charts if you need them
and how to create them using ggplot.
Alright then we talked about starting
later tips so I just give you some tips on
where do you specify certain things in
your visualization? So do you should
specify your data in the very starting a
foundational layers just specify it later?
Should just specify your aesthetics at
the start or further on and ultimately
it all depends on what you want from
your visualization. What are you going to
be changing if you're going to be
changing your color aesthetic a lot
throughout your different layers then
maybe it's not a good idea to specify at
the start or for instance if your data
set is set in stone and you're going to
be changing throughout your different
layers then it's good idea to specify it at
the start of your visualization. So just
you know think strategically about how
you're going to create this plot and what is
going to be constant
and what's going to be variable and from
that you can decide where to specify
those things in which layers of plots
to specify those things. Then we talked
about statistical transformations so we
have a look at a couple we talked about
the smoother or geom smooth. We talk
about the jitter the box plot and
those are just a few examples but already
we were able to create some very
powerful visualizations with those box
plots and oh just with those
statistical transformations I really
like that. Box plot visualization because
you could identify which genres of
movies are more likely to be successful
all things being equal and I think we
had finally found that horror
no not horror movies are the least
successful ones and the most successful
ones thrillers, thrillers have the highest
chance of being successful if you create
kind of like a statistically average
type of movie then it will probably have
a higher rating with your audience and
also had a mini challenge for you there
to create the box plots for the critical
ratings. That one also was looked a
little bit different you probably
noticed that it was much more stretched
out. So less some more variance in the
box plots for the critic rate. Then we
talked about using facets, this was quite
a long section we're already up to point
10. So we talked about using facets,
facets allow you to create lots of
different plots within 1 plot. So basically
recycle your plot for different
categories whether it's years or whether
it's
genres or something else and that allows
you to drill into the separate
categories or the into these categories
separately. So sometimes you might want
to use facets sometimes you might decide
not to but in some cases they are quite
handy and we saw a few quite a few
examples of when facets should probably
be used even in our challenge and then
we talked about coordinates. So
coordinates are how is it's the up at
the top so I think it's a six-layer of
the visualization that's how you can
zoom in to chart, you can specify
whether you want a XY coordinates, you want
polar coordinates or maybe you want to
map all these different types of things
but we were using coordinates
predominantly for zooming into parts of our
chart and finally or we talk about
themes. So themes are your non data ink
they're just ways to make your
visualization look pretty and more
appealing to the eye. So I hope you
enjoyed this section, we definitely
covered of a lot about ggplot but as
you can see it's all quite simple stuff
and that's why I really like ggplot 2,
this package because it's all very
logical and very straightforward stuff.
So there we go,
don't forget to do the quiz for this
section to assess your progress and also
I have another exciting challenge for
you, it's going to be even more movies even
more information, more columns about
movies.
I'm sure you're going to enjoy that as
well and I look forward to seeing you
next time
until then, happy coding.